MaRLio
Mario's adventure with Reinforcement Learning


Deep Reinforcement Learning for Super Mario World and the potential of RL models in our world.

Project Overview
The main goal of this project is to use deep reinforcement learning (DRL) to train a model to play Super Mario World on the SNES.  
The project will demonstrate the ability of RL models to use data as inputs and learn to prevent bad outcomes (from the reward function).   

Data Description
The data for this project will come from the OpenAI Gym Retro environment, which provides an emulator (snes9x) for Super Mario World.  
The dataset consists of frames from the game (observation space), along with actions (action space) taken by the model and the corresponding rewards (scenario.json).  
The rewards are calculated every frame by accessing the memory adress (data.json) of game variables.  
The dataset will need to be preprocessed to extract features that are relevant to the DRL model.  

Methodology
The DRL model will be trained using the Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO from stable baselines 3) algorithm.  
The DRL model will be evaluated on its ability to complete a level in the game.  

The timeline for completing the project is as follows:  
Week 1: Collect and preprocess data for Super Mario World  
Week 2: Train and evaluate the DRL model on Super Mario World  
Week 3: Visualize the model's progress  
Week 4: Use the files generated to produce a video (Davinci Resolve)  

Results Interpretation
The results of the Super Mario World model will be interpreted in terms of the average score achieved and the number of deaths.  
The interpretation of the results will be presented in the jupyter notebook.  
Also, videos will be made, to show the progress while training (learn) versus the progress after training (predict).  

Access to the code, model and videos
A link to popular video sharing platforms will be provided.  
Additionally, a dashboard cell will be provided at the end of the jupyter notebook.  

Conclusion
The project will demonstrate the ability of DRL models to learn from data and prevent bad outcomes.  
The exploration of the potential of DRL in controlling a somewhat complex videogame environment will provide insights into how this technology can be applied in real-world scenarios.  
Overall, this project will showcase the potential of DRL in solving complex problems and preventing failures of complex systems.  
